翻译：ui-batch.md (#1983)
cocos-creator/creator-docs: en/ui-system/components/engine/ui-batch.md

> # 2D Renderable Components Batching Guidelines

Reviewer: 渲染组件是翻译成 Rendering Component，可参考 https://docs.unrealengine.com/4.27/en-US/Basics/Components/Rendering/

Reviewer: 经咨询，我们引擎内部的 API 是 Renderable，所以用 Renderable 就可以了

## Prerequisites

To batch render 2D renderable components, the following criteria are required:

| Prerequisite | Description |
| :-- | :--- |
| Nodes are hosted in the same layer | Renderable components in different layers are unable to be batched as layers predetermine the render process. |
| Renderable components are drawn with the same material | As Cocos Creator instantiates materials after `uniforms` are set which prevents batching. **It is prominent for renderable components to be batched to share the same material.** <br>If you created a `uniform` for a custom material and wish for the material to be batched after said `uniform` is no longer being used, you can reassign the material to the component via interface `CustomMaterial`. |
| Material instances share the same settings for `BlendState` and `DepthStencilState` | `DepthStencilState` is automatized by the engine to perform depth testing and create stencil buffers. It is primarily used to implement visual effects such as masking. In general, it is not necessary for users to modify its parameters. |

> | Vertex data are transferred in the same **buffer** (new in 3.4.1.) | Vertex data are automatized by the engine under most scenarios and require no manual management. For more information, please see below in section **MeshBuffer Guidelines**. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Vertex data are transferred in the same **buffer** (new in v3.4.1.) | Vertex data are automatized by the engine under most scenarios and require no manual management. For more information, please see below in section **MeshBuffer Guidelines**. |
```

- TiledMap
- Spine
- DragoneBones

Spites and Labels are in general unable to be batched together due to different texture types, but this can be circumvented by combining textures. The following is a workaround solution to achieve the same goal:
- For sprites, combine textures with [Auto Atlas](../../../asset/auto-atlas.md) and [Dynamic Atlas](../../../advanced-topics/dynamic-atlas.md). Texture Atlases can be batched with other components as long as the prerequisites are met.
- For labels, create a bitmap cache to combine textures allowing them to be batched with sprites. However, it is ill-advised to frequently alter the content of label texts once bitmap caches are created.

In summary, we recommend optimizing Node Tree structure in conjunction with combing textures with Auto Atlas, Dynamic Atlas and bitmap caches to achieve ideal batching results.

## MeshBuffer Guidelines

Please be reminded that it is required for vertex data to be transferred in the same MeshBuffer for batching to be successful. The following scenarios will result in switching between MeshBuffers:

> ### Before Version 3.4.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Before v3.4.1
```

Total vertex number in the scene exceeds the maximum capacity of a MeshBuffer (65535.)

> ### After Version 3.4.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### After v3.4.1
```

> Render data structures are redesigned in version 3.4.1. Please take note:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Render data structures are redesigned in v3.4.1. Please take note:
```

1. Property **BATCHER2D_MEM_INCREMENT** under **Project Properties -> Macro Configuration** indicates the maximum vertex number for a MeshBuffer. Increasing the value will allow a MeshBuffer to host more data to be rendered but will also increase memory consumption.

2. **BATCHER2D_MEM_INCREMENT** is measured in **kilobytes**. Users can follow the instructions below to calculate the corresponding capacity for vertex numbers:

>     Vertices in Cocos Creators are formatted as [vfmtPosUvColor](https://github.com/cocos-creator/engine/blob/v3.4.1/cocos/2d/renderer/vertex-format.ts#L43), its definitions as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Vertices in Cocos Creator are formatted as [vfmtPosUvColor](https://github.com/cocos-creator/engine/blob/v3.4.1/cocos/2d/renderer/vertex-format.ts#L43), its definitions as follows:
```

    
    Please note that the maximum capacity for a MeshBuffer is **65535**. In other words, the maximum value for **BATCHER2D_MEM_INCREMENT** is `65535 * 9 * 4 / 1024 ≈ 2303.96` kilobytes.

3. The core mechanism for 2D rendering is **static vertex buffer**, specifically:

    - **Static vertex buffer** presides over the whole lifespan of components while index buffer is filled on a per frame basis and does not implement memory caches in any form. Due to the volume of data in vertex buffer, it is advisable to store it separately to give access to specific memory segments while avoiding unnecessary updates.

    - Index buffer has a simpler data structure and lighter data volume compared to vertex buffer. Updating at each frame, index buffer defines the order for vertices to be rendered and takes an insignificant amount of processing power, requiring no sophisticated memory management.

    - Due to vertex buffer being static, it is advisable to preload vertex buffer at the very beginning of the component's lifespan. At loading, component will request relevant vertex buffers from MeshBuffer and returns them at destruction.

>     - When MeshBuffer is unable to provide the vertex buffer requested by the component, the engine will create a new MeshBuffer allocated with the amount of memory space as dictated in **BATCHER2D_MEM_INCREMENT** so that vertex buffer can be successfully distributed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - When MeshBuffer is unable to provide the vertex buffer requested by the component, the engine will create a new MeshBuffer allocated with the amount of memory space as dictated in **BATCHER2D_MEM_INCREMENT** so that vertex buffer can be successfully distributed.

```

# 2D Renderable Components Batching Guidelines

## Prerequisites

To batch render 2D renderable components, the following criteria are required:

| Prerequisite | Description |
| :-- | :--- |
| Nodes are hosted in the same layer | Renderable components in different layers are unable to be batched as layers predetermine the render process. |

> | Renderable components are drawn with the same material | Cocos Creator instantiates materials after `uniforms` are set which prevents batching. **It is prominent for renderable components to be batched to share the same material.** <br>If a `uniform` is created for a custom material and the material is to be batched after said `uniform` is no longer being used, reassign the material to the component via interface `CustomMaterial`. |

Reviewer 2: Renderable components are using the same material
With either different effect, defines or uniform values, gpu draws cannot be batched together, so this is the first thing to guarantee for batching elements in one draw call.

> | Renderable components are drawn with the same material | As Cocos Creator instantiates materials after `uniforms` are set which prevents batching. **It is prominent for renderable components to be batched to share the same material.** <br>If you created a `uniform` for a custom material and wish for the material to be batched after said `uniform` is no longer being used, you can reassign the material to the component via interface `CustomMaterial`. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Renderable components are drawn with the same material | Cocos Creator instantiates materials after `uniforms` are set which prevents batching. **It is prominent for renderable components to be batched to share the same material.** <br>If a `uniform` is created for a custom material and the material is to be batched after said `uniform` is no longer being used, reassign the material to the component via interface `CustomMaterial`. |
```

> | Material instances share the same settings for `BlendState` and `DepthStencilState` | DepthStencilState is automatically set by the engine to perform depth & stencil writing and testing. It is primarily used to implement mask component and depth test. In short, user need to remember elements inside masks and elements outside can not be batched together. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Material instances share the same settings for `BlendState` and `DepthStencilState` | `DepthStencilState` is automatically set by the engine to perform depth & stencil writing and testing. It is primarily used to implement mask component and depth test. In short, user need to remember elements inside masks and elements outside can not be batched together. |
```

> | Material instances share the same settings for `BlendState` and `DepthStencilState` | `DepthStencilState` is automatized by the engine to perform depth testing and create stencil buffers. It is primarily used to implement visual effects such as masking. In general, it is not necessary for users to modify its parameters. |

Reviewer 2: `DepthStencilState` is automatically set by the engine to perform depth & stencil writing and testing. It is primarily used to implement mask component and depth test. In short, user need to remember elements inside masks and elements outside can not be batched together.

> | Vertex data are transferred in the same **buffer** (new in v3.4.1.) | Vertex data are automatized by the engine under most scenarios and require no manual management. For more information, please refer to the **MeshBuffer Guidelines** section below. |

Reviewer 2: Vertex data are automatically set by the engine under most scenarios and require no manual management.

> | Vertex data are transferred in the same **buffer** (new in v3.4.1.) | Vertex data are automatized by the engine under most scenarios and require no manual management. For more information, please see below in section **MeshBuffer Guidelines**. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Vertex data are transferred in the same **buffer** (new in v3.4.1.) | Vertex data are automatized by the engine under most scenarios and require no manual management. For more information, please refer to the **MeshBuffer Guidelines** section below. |
```

> | Textures share the same source and sampler type | The most common issue that prevents batching is mismatch between textures. For example, Sprites and Labels are unable to be batched due to different sampler types. We recommend a general workflow to achieve optimal batching results in Cocos Creator. Please see below in section **Batching Workflow Guidelines** for more details. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Textures share the same source and sampler type | The most common issue that prevents batching is a mismatch between textures. For example, Sprites and Labels are unable to be batched due to different sampler types. It is recommended to use a general workflow to achieve optimal batching results in Cocos Creator. Please refer to the **Batching Workflow Guidelines** section below for more details. |
```

> | Textures share the same source and sampler type | The most common issue that prevents batching is a mismatch between textures. For example, Sprites and Labels are unable to be batched due to different sampler types. It is recommended to use a general workflow to achieve optimal batching results in Cocos Creator. Please refer to the **Batching Workflow Guidelines** section below for more details. |

Reviewer 2: Sprites and Labels are unable to be batched due to the fact that labels are using independent textures.

## Batching Workflow Guidelines

> Please note that Cocos Creator renders components based on the hierarchy of the **Node Tree** structure. Batching is prone to be interrupted when encountering a node that is prohibited from batching, thus preventing the rest of the nodes in the tree to be batched. Users are encouraged to manage their Node Tree structure to achieve optimized outcome. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> **Note**: Cocos Creator renders components based on the hierarchy of the **Node Tree** structure. Batching is prone to be interrupted when encountering a node that is prohibited from batching, thus preventing the rest of the nodes in the tree to be batched. Users are encouraged to manage their Node Tree structure to achieve an optimized outcome. 
```

> > **Note**: Cocos Creator renders components based on the hierarchy of the **Node Tree** structure. Batching is prone to be interrupted when encountering a node that is prohibited from batching, thus preventing the rest of the nodes in the tree to be batched. Users are encouraged to manage their Node Tree structure to achieve an optimized outcome. 

Reviewer 2: ... Batching is prone to be interrupted when encountering a node that doesn't follow the same prerequisite settings with previous one, thus it starts to create a new batch using its own prerequisite settings. Users are encouraged to manage their Node Tree structure to achieve an optimized outcome.

Components that are prohibited from batching include:

- Mask
- Graphics
- UIMeshRenderer

These components are prohibited from batching due to utilization of a different material type and different data structures.

Components below are also prohibited from render batching but follows their separate internal batching mechanism:

- TiledMap
- Spine
- DragoneBones

Spites and Labels are in general unable to be batched together due to different texture types, but this can be circumvented by combining textures. The following is a workaround solution to achieve the same goal:
- For sprites, combine textures with [Auto Atlas](../../../asset/auto-atlas.md) and [Dynamic Atlas](../../../advanced-topics/dynamic-atlas.md). Texture Atlases can be batched with other components as long as the prerequisites are met.
- For labels, create a bitmap cache to combine textures allowing them to be batched with sprites. However, it is ill-advised to frequently alter the content of label texts once bitmap caches are created.

> In summary, it is recommended to optimize the Node Tree structure in conjunction with combing textures with Auto Atlas, Dynamic Atlas and bitmap caches to achieve ideal batching results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is recommended to optimize the Node Tree structure in conjunction with combing textures with Auto Atlas, Dynamic Atlas, and bitmap caches to achieve ideal batching results.
```

> In summary, we recommend optimizing Node Tree structure in conjunction with combing textures with Auto Atlas, Dynamic Atlas and bitmap caches to achieve ideal batching results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In summary, it is recommended to optimize the Node Tree structure in conjunction with combing textures with Auto Atlas, Dynamic Atlas and bitmap caches to achieve ideal batching results.
```

## MeshBuffer Guidelines

MeshBuffer is an internal data type used to store vertex and index data in 2D renderable components. Please be reminded that it is required for vertex data to be transferred in the same MeshBuffer for being batched successfully. The following scenarios will result in switching between MeshBuffers:

### Before v3.4.1

> Total vertex number in the scene exceeds the maximum capacity of a MeshBuffer (65535.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The total vertex number in the scene exceeds the maximum capacity of a MeshBuffer (65535).
```

> Please be reminded that it is required for vertex data to be transferred in the same MeshBuffer for batching to be successful. The following scenarios will result in switching between MeshBuffers:

Reviewer 2: MeshBuffer is an internal data type used to store vertex and index data in 2D renderable components. Please be reminded that it is required for vertex data to be transferred in the same MeshBuffer for being batched successfully. The following scenarios will result in switching between MeshBuffers:

### After v3.4.1

Render data structures are redesigned in v3.4.1. Please take note:

> 1. Property **BATCHER2D_MEM_INCREMENT** under **Project Properties -> Macro Configuration** indicates the maximum memory size for a MeshBuffer. Increasing the value will allow a MeshBuffer to host more data to be rendered but will also increase memory consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Property **BATCHER2D_MEM_INCREMENT** under **Project -> Project Settings -> Macro Configurations** indicates the maximum memory size for a MeshBuffer. Increasing the value will allow a MeshBuffer to host more data to be rendered but will also increase memory consumption.
```

> 1. Property **BATCHER2D_MEM_INCREMENT** under **Project Properties -> Macro Configuration** indicates the maximum vertex number for a MeshBuffer. Increasing the value will allow a MeshBuffer to host more data to be rendered but will also increase memory consumption.

Reviewer 2: Property **BATCHER2D_MEM_INCREMENT** under **Project Properties -> Macro Configuration** indicates the maximum memory size for a MeshBuffer

    
    Please note that the maximum capacity for a MeshBuffer is **65535**. In other words, the maximum value for **BATCHER2D_MEM_INCREMENT** is `65535 * 9 * 4 / 1024 ≈ 2303.96` kilobytes.

3. The core mechanism for 2D rendering is **static vertex buffer**, specifically:

    - **Static vertex buffer** presides over the whole lifespan of components while index buffer is filled on a per frame basis and does not implement memory caches in any form. Due to the volume of data in vertex buffer, it is advisable to store it separately to give access to specific memory segments while avoiding unnecessary updates.

    - Index buffer has a simpler data structure and lighter data volume compared to vertex buffer. Updating at each frame, index buffer defines the order for vertices to be rendered and takes an insignificant amount of processing power, requiring no sophisticated memory management.

    - Due to vertex buffer being static, it is advisable to preload vertex buffer at the very beginning of the component's lifespan. At loading, component will request relevant vertex buffers from MeshBuffer and returns them at destruction.

>     - When MeshBuffer is unable to provide the vertex buffer requested by the component, the engine will create a new MeshBuffer allocated with the amount of memory space as dictated in **BATCHER2D_MEM_INCREMENT** so that vertex buffer can be successfully distributed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - When MeshBuffer is unable to provide the vertex buffer requested by the component, the engine will create a new MeshBuffer allocated with the amount of memory space as indicated in **BATCHER2D_MEM_INCREMENT** so that vertex buffer can be successfully distributed.

```

>     - When MeshBuffer is unable to provide the vertex buffer requested by the component, the engine will create a new MeshBuffer allocated with the amount of memory space as dictated in **BATCHER2D_MEM_INCREMENT** so that vertex buffer can be successfully distributed.

Reviewer 2: dictated -> indicated
